# 3DWorldJavaSketchUp

This is my Master's thesis using Java, SketchUp and its Ruby API

Three-dimensional (3D) animation is one of those important topics in computer graphics. Its practical applications are extensive and seem to be highly increased. Animation can adds realism to static 3D scene. This research introduces the new Java API for producing animated 3D scene using Java and Google SketchUp. SketchUp is the best suited for this method, it is a useful and popular tool for 3D scene creation that provides ease of use and big set of 3D modeling libraries of which Java lacks. The API is composed of five parts: SketchUp initialization, landscape, scenery models, camera, user model, and animation. SketchUp initialization handles starting SketchUp, create a new project and start Ruby console. Landscape and scenery are responsible for environment generations such as terrain, trees, and building. User model and camera represents generations of the user model along with its camera view, both are controllable by programmer. The last part is animation which generates and manipulates animation of each moving model in the scene. The animation also includes collision detection for monitoring and recovering collision between models during the animation.
In Google SketchUp, there is a feature called Ruby Console which allows 3D objects to be drawn and manipulated by executing Ruby script, instead of using drawing tools. The idea of creating the animated 3D scene is to use Autoit for inputting Ruby scripts to SketchUp’s Ruby console in order to have 3D scene created and animated. Ruby console has to be located first and then the scripts can be injected. Then the result in Ruby console is read back to Java interface by Autoit in order to perform a result monitoring
